v1.2 upgrade guide (#31063)
hashicorp/terraform: website/docs/language/upgrade-guides/1-2.mdx

The new v1.2 functionality supports the same environment variable naming scheme as the credentials helper, but has a difference in priority order. Specifically, `TF_TOKEN_...` environment variables now take priority over both credentials blocks in CLI configuration and credentials stored automatically when you run `terraform login`. After upgrading, ensure you do not specify credentials for the same host in multiple locations.

We also recommend upgrading the [hashicorp/tfe](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/tfe) provider to version 0.31 if you currently use it with the credentials helper to manage Terraform Cloud or Terraform Enterprise objects. Version 0.31 contains built-in support for the built-in `TF_TOKEN_...` environment variables.

## Terraform Requires Linux kernel 2.6.32 or Later

The Terraform runtime no longer supports Linux kernels prior to
2.6.32, and official releases of Terraform v1.2 for Linux
require distributions using kernel 2.6.32 or later. The CLI behavior on earlier
kernel versions is undefined.

> ## Obsolete TLS Features Are No Longer Supported

Reviewer: I like to use simpler words where possible. Could we do "Outdated TLS features?" rather than obsolete?

Reviewer: okay if you think this materially changes the meaning, I support you putting it back. I just..I always like to be less fancy...and obsolete is often listed as a synonym for outdated (or at least I've seen that!)

> Terraform now requires the server to support TLS v1.2 when making outgoing HTTPS or other TLS connections as a client. TLS v1.0 and v1.1 are no longer
> supported. All up-to-date servers should support TLS 1.2, and mainstream
> web browsers have required it since 2020.
> 
> Terraform will no longer accept CA certificates signed using the SHA-1 hash function when making outgoing HTTPS or other TLS connections as a client. Publicly-trusted Certificate Authorities have not issued SHA-1 certificates since 2015.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform no longer supports the following features when making outgoing HTTPS or other TLS connections as a client:

- TLS v1.0 and v1.1. Terraform now requires the server to support TLS v1.2. All up-to-date servers should support TLS 1.2, and mainstream web browsers have required it since 2020.
 - CA certificates signed using the SHA-1 hash function. Publicly-trusted Certificate Authorities have not issued SHA-1 certificates since 2015.
```

> This change only affects requests made by Terraform Core itself, which includes
> provider installation, module installation, and interactions with your
> configured backend. Terraform provider plugins are separate programs which have
> their own rules about which TLS versions are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change only affects requests from Terraform, including provider installation, module installation, and interactions with your configured backend. Provider plugins are separate programs that have
their own rules about which TLS versions are supported.
```

Reviewer 2: I agree that the "made by .. itself" words here were redundant, but I think it's confusing to just say "Terraform" when we're explicitly trying to talk about just one component of Terraform, and exclude providers which are another part of Terraform that are not included in this statement.

I notice I also slipped and used "Terraform Core" instead of "Terraform CLI" here. I'd suggest we say "requests from Terraform CLI" here, rather than just "requests from Terraform", so we can be a bit more explicit that we're talking about only one component of the product rather than the product as a whole.

Reviewer: This is fair!! yeah I ...I took it out because of the "Core" but better to be more specific. I agree with your proposed change!

---
page_title: Upgrading to Terraform v1.2
description: Upgrading to Terraform v1.2
---

# Upgrading to Terraform v1.2

Terraform v1.2 is a minor release in the stable Terraform v1.0 series, and so
this release should not require any unusual upgrade steps for most users.

> Terraform v1.2 continues to honor
> [the Terraform v1.0 Compatibility Promises](/language/v1-compatibility-promises),
> but there are some behavior changes outside of those promises that may affect a
> small number of users, described in the following sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform v1.2 continues to honor
[the Terraform v1.0 Compatibility Promises](/language/v1-compatibility-promises),
but there are some behavior changes outside of those promises that may affect a
small number of users, described in the following sections.
```
```suggestion
Terraform v1.2 continues to honor the
[Terraform v1.0 Compatibility Promises](/language/v1-compatibility-promises),
but there are some behavior changes outside of those promises that may affect a
small number of users. Specifically, the following updates may require additional upgrade steps:
```

* [Terraform requires Linux kernel 2.6.32 or later](#terraform-requires-linux-kernel-2-6-32-or-later)
* [Remote servers must support TLSv1.2](#remote-servers-must-support-tlsv1-2)
* [TLS Certificates signed with SHA-1 are no longer supported](#tls-certificates-signed-with-sha-1-are-no-longer-supported)

> * [terraform-credentials-env functionality is now built into the Terraform CLI](#terraform-credentials-env-functionality-is-now-built-into-the-terraform-cli)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [terraform-credentials-env functionality is built into the Terraform CLI](#the-terraform-credentials-env-functionality-is-built-into-the-terraform-cli)
```

> ## Terraform requires Linux kernel 2.6.32 or later

Reviewer: We should use title case :) 

```suggestion
## Terraform Requires Linux kernel 2.6.32 or Later
```

> The runtime which Terraform uses no longer supports Linux kernels prior to
> 2.6.32. With that in mind, the official releases of Terraform v1.2 for Linux
> require distributions using kernel 2.6.32 or later. The CLI behavior on earlier
> kernel versions is undefined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Terraform runtime no longer supports Linux kernels prior to
2.6.32, and official releases of Terraform v1.2 for Linux
require distributions using kernel 2.6.32 or later. The CLI behavior on earlier
kernel versions is undefined.
```

> ## Remote servers must support TLSv1.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remote Servers Must Support TLSv1.2
```

> When making outgoing HTTPS or other TLS connections as a client, Terraform now

Reviewer 2: For changes that relate to how Terraform sends outgoing requests, I think it can help to include a follow-on paragraph to remind (or teach) readers that providers are separate programs with their own rules, since in everyday use of Terraform there are far more requests being made by providers than being made by Terraform Core.

Perhaps just a short paragraph like the following, after this one?

> This change only affects requests made by Terraform Core itself, which includes provider installation, module installation, and interactions with your configured backend. Terraform provider plugins are separate programs which have their own rules about which TLS versions are supported.

I think something similar would also apply to the "TLS Certificates signed with SHA-1 are no longer supported" and so I wonder about grouping them under a single heading "Obsolete TLS features no longer supported" which describes both the required protocol version and the removal of SHA-1 support, but perhaps that would just serve to make it harder for readers to notice that the removals apply to them, so I'm not totally sure what's best to do here.

(A possible argument in favor of the grouping is that those relying on poorly-maintained middleboxes may only know that their middlebox is running old software, not specifically what the limitations of that old software are, and so maybe "we've changed the requirements for TLS" is a better hook for them to connect the cause with the effect than having the heading directly call out protocol/hashing minutiae. :man_shrugging: )

Author: I think this makes sense. Re-labeled and grouped the TLS sections. @laurapacilio?

requires the server to support TLS v1.2. TLS v1.0 and v1.1 are no longer
supported. Any safely up-to-date server should support TLS 1.2, and mainstream
web browsers have required it since 2020.

> ## TLS Certificates signed with SHA-1 are no longer supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## TLS Certificates Signed With SHA-1 Are No Longer Supported
```

When making outgoing HTTPS or other TLS connections as a client, Terraform will
no longer accept CA certificates signed using the SHA-1 hash function. Publicly
trusted Certificate Authorities have not issued SHA-1 certificates since 2015.

> ## terraform-credentials-env functionality is now built into the Terraform CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The `terraform-credentials-env` Functionality is Built Into the Terraform CLI
```

Reviewer 2: I would guess that this section will be the most interesting to the most people (the rest are just removals of obsolete software/protocols), so maybe we should hoist this one up to the top to make it more likely to be seen by someone who is just skimming?
